# The Effect of Group Status on the Variability of Group Representations in LLM-generated Text

Paper and related materials for [Lee](https://lee-messi.github.io/), [Lai](https://sites.wustl.edu/calvinlai/), and [Montgomery](https://sites.wustl.edu/montgomery/) (submitted). The abstract for the paper is as follows:

> Large Language Models (LLMs) have become pervasive in everyday life, yet their inner workings remain opaque. While scholarly efforts have demonstrated LLMs’ propensity to reproduce biases in their training data, they have primarily focused on the association of social groups with stereotypic attributes. In this paper, we extend this line of inquiry to investigate a bias akin to the social-psychological phenomenon where socially dominant groups are perceived to be less homogeneous than socially subordinate groups. We focus on the effect of group status on the homogeneity of groups in LLMs, particularly in the context of race/ethnicity and gender. We had ChatGPT, a state-of-the-art LLM, generate a diversity of texts about intersectional group identities and measured text homogeneity. Across seven model specifications, we consistently found that LLMs portray African, Hispanic, and Asian Americans as more homogeneous than White Americans. We found that LLMs portray women as more homogeneous than men but that the influence of gender on text homogeneity is less consistent and smaller than that of race/ethnicity. Finally, we found that the effect of gender differed across racial/ethnic groups such that the effect of gender was consistent within African and Hispanic American but not within Asian and White Americans. We speculate possible sources of this bias in LLMs and posit that the bias carries the potential to reinforce stereotypes and to amplify biases in future LLM training. 

This paper has been submitted, but comments are still very welcome. Please feel free to send us an [email](mailto:hojunlee@wustl.edu), or open an "Issue" here. For detailed instructions for reproducing analysis, refer to the [Instructions.md](Instructions.md) document.

## Data Availability Statement

All code and data required for reproducing analyses are available in the repository.